In a person with scoliosis,
the backbone or spine curves from
side to side instead of being straight.
The area most commonly affected
is the bones or vertebrae
in the upper back.
Scoliosis develops gradually.
It is usually first noticed around puberty.
Problems with the shape or formation
of the vertebrae,
legs of different lengths,
and disease are all potential causes.
A person with scoliosis may have
uneven shoulders, hips, or waist;
a hump on one side of the back;
shoulder blades that stick out;
back pain; or lean to one side.
Treatment depends on severity.
Some people with scoliosis
are simply checked regularly.
Others may wear braces and a
molded plastic shell that slows down
the curving process or undergo surgery.